# 题型

* 学术讨论：1、给出自己观点 2、为讨论做出贡献 3、120-180
* 综合写作：3min Reading + 2min

# 笔记原则

### 阅读

* 主旨句
* 分论点
* 专有名词：音节+写法

任务：

* 找三个 subpoint
* supporting detailed 为听力铺垫
* subpoint 可能需要总结

# 综合写作

1. 反驳型 9
2. 问题方法型 1

## 同义转述

### 1. 近义词替换

e.g. offer help -> provide assistance to

    be good for -> be beneficial for

    clear away -> remove

    minimize -> reduce

### 2. 颠倒顺序

### 3. 换词性

## Listening

### 信号词

* 否定
* 解释
* 假设
* 转折（it's true that)
* 并列 -
* 因果(consequently)

## Writing

Introductin + Body 1 2 3

### 参考句型(否定)

# 观点补充

* stance
* agree with A
* explain & give detail
* another reason
* explain
* conclude

## 举例论证

* 个人
* 假设（hypothetical）

#### Introduction

The reading and the lecture both discuss [话题主体]. The author believes that [阅读主旨]. However, the lecturer disagree with the argument

eg: The reading and the lecture both discuss carved stone balls. The author enumerates several theories explaning the meanings and purposes of carved stone balls in the late Noeolithic period. Howerver, the lecturer disagrees with these theories.

#### Body 1

 To begin with, according to the reading, [Reading Point 1]. On the other hand, the lecturer argues that [Listening Point 1]. This is the point directly contradicts what the passage indicates

eg: To begin with, according to the reading, carved stone balls were used to hunt and fight. On the other hand, the lecturer argues that it is not true because carved stone balls found by the researchers aren't broken and there are little trace of use preseved on them. This is the point directly contradicts what the passage indicates.

#### Body 2

Moreover, the author claims that [Reading subpoint2]. On the contrary, the lecturer rebuts that [Listening point 2]. This is another point wherethe listening opposes the reading passage.

eg: Moreover, the author claims that carved stones balls are used

#### Body 3

Finally, the author contends that  [Reading points 3]. Nevertheless, the lecturer retorts that [Listening Point 3]. This is the last point that the listening strongly disapproves of the passage.

eg:

### 参考句型（Problem-Solving）

Introduction: The reading and the lecture both discuss (iR). The author believes that sth./doing sth faces several problems. Meanwhile, the lecture provides solutions respectively.


Body 1: Firstly, one problem that the author mentions is that （阅读分论点1）. The lecturerproposes a solution to this problem.（听力分论点1）

Body 2: Secondly, the author suggests that（阅读分论点2）sth./doing sth. is another
problem. To solve this problem, the lecturer states that （听力分论点2）.

Body 3: Finally, the author argues that (阅读分论点3) sth./doing sth. faces the problem of sth./doing sth. Nevertheless, the lecturer suggests that (PS)i€#3) sth./doing sth. is a good solution.

### 参考句型（多问题单方法型）

Introduction: The reading and the lecture both discuss sth/doing sth.... The author believes that sth./doing sth faces several problems. Meanwhile, the lecture suggests that these problems can be solved by sth./doing sth.


Body 1: Firstly, the author argues that ... However, the lecturer states that to deal with this problem, ...


Body 2: Secondly, the author claims that ... To solve this problem, the lecturer maintains that ..


Body 3: Finally, the author contends that ... Nevertheless, the lecturer suggests that sth./doing sth. can solve this problem because ...

# 学术讨论

* 谁，做什么，特殊条件
* 做不做A && 做A or 做B && 【是不是】类
* 做A or B => 对比论证
* 政府类话题常用理由：benefit & tax

## 自说自话

personal opinion

R1

explanation

R2

explanation

R3

explanation

Conclusion

Opinion：In my opinion, It's a great choice to apply for an exchange to the local university.

Reason 1 : To begin with, I can be supported by my university to save costs

Reason 2: Moreover, I can learn local culture by interacting with my local classmates.

In modern society, students are under high peer pressure. If students take action to take extra class, they would cunsume more energy and lose interest on study. Consequently, they would be not capable to focus on class as well as screw up their life.

In modern society, people need to work hard in order to get a decent life. If people take action to order food online, it will take them less time. Obviously, people's work efficiency will increase as they can focus on work all the time instead of wasting time to line up in the supermarket. Consequently, it can save a lot of time.

In my opinion, It's a great choice to apply for an exchange to the local university. To begin with, it is easy to get support from my university to save costs. Annually, there are several chances for university students to apply for which allow them to study in another university they select without any fees.

## 观点补充

1. stance
2. agree with A
3. explanation
4. give another reason
5. explanation
6. summarize

## 让步反驳

1. stance
2. r1
3. e
4. 让步反驳
5. r2
6. d
7. conclude

## 因果论证

* 背景：In the modern society
* 很明显：It's self-evident that

## 对比论证

1. stance
2. explanation
3. example
4. compare and contrast explanation
5. conclude

Step 1： 重申对方观点+坏结果

Step 2：为什么

* 在同一维度下，A这方面好+B这方面不好

### 写法

1. 对topic 提问
2. 解释因果链
3. 找对结论
4. 结果

# Practice

For example, when I have trouble in my experiment, like some occasional errors, I'd like to watch some television serial to improve my mood.

In my opinion, giving grades based only on performance is better. To begin with, as Kelly said, it's unfair for those whose accuracy is higher, as it can reflect that they effort more than those who have more incorrect answer. Furthermore, I believe that if grading students on their effort, students will more likely to cheat in their homework and it's really hard to reveal their negative behavior. For example, how can teachers differ that which assignment which is full of correct is cheated? Only the god knows.However, if teachers only grade students on their performance, they can avoid the problem because cheat is meaningless as well as it will make their grade worth.  In conclution, grading students only by their performance is more fair.

The passage and the leture both discuss the decline of reading literature. The author believe that this trend really make him worried. However, the lecturer disagree with his argument.

To begin with, according to the reading, literatural reading decline sharply so that people will be lack of intellectual stimuterlation. On the other hand, the lecturer argues that people can read science writing or news journals instead, as they are difficult enough to provide such stimulation and people will also benefit a lot. This is the point directly contradicts what the passage indicates.

Moreover, the author claims that the culture level will lower if people give up reading literature. On the contrary, the lecturer rebuts that nowadays people have less time than the past. As the contamporary culture is changed, people have rights to choose new type of media to replace the literature and it is a kind of progress of culture. This is another point where the listening opposes the reading passage.

Finally, the author contends that the literature is fallen because of the poor standard of readers. Nevertheless, the lecturer retorts that it is those author's fault as their work is difficult to understand. This is the last point that the listening strongly disapproves of the passage.

In morden society, people have many ways for entertainment. If people used to watching television, they will save a large amount of money. We can suppose that if people do not watch television, they will find other things instead, such as gambling, going to some places which are really expensive, or traveling. These activities are far more expensive. So for those who lack money, watching television is a really cost-effective way. Considering the following hypothetical situation, a worker who need entertainment after working in a site for a whole week. His colleage may invite him -- or even deceive him to

I believe that sharing information on social media site is a ditraction from study. Take me as an example. When I was 14 years old, I achieve a perfect score in my final math examination, so my parents reward me a smart phone. Then I really addicted to upload my daily experience to Weibo as I could not control myself to read comments and commends from others on Weibo, such as my friends, relatives and even strangers. Obviously, it took me a lot of time, 4 hours a day on average, to edit my blogs so that I had little time to do my math assignment. What I can do was coping other's  homework. As a result, my academic performance declined rapidly as I almost cannot pass the math examination in the next semester.

Although there is some merit in the argument that factories have massive impact, it is also worth noting that individuals have the same impact if individual impact adds up. For example, we suppose that a family produce a cubic metre of polluted water a week. For a city, it contain over a millon families so that we can easily find that they would pollute billions tons of water. Undoubtly, this amount is equal to how much factories in the city produce.

In my opinion, we can protect our environment by supporting environment-friendly products, which means we should buy the products which are manufactured by renewable resource and can be recycled after they are used. For example, chopsticks made from bamboo should be prioritized as bamboo requires less water and no pesticides to grow, can significantly reduce the environmental footprint. Moreover, we can encourage the companies to produce more so that they can cut the pollution during their production process by purchasing those products. Although individual power is little, if we can affect the great enterprise by adding up our power, it will benifit the environment much as industry is the main source of pollution. The more renewable resource they use, the less pollution they make. In conclusion, I believe it will be effective if we prioritize to purchase environment-friendly products.

In my opinion, it is effective to apply for an exchange to the local university. First of all, it's cheap for a university student to acquire such an exchange as the university will pay all of the tution fees so that we can save a lot of money. Moreover, we can interact with the local students to learn their culture. For example, when I was a freshman, I took a course about the American culture and I was really interested. As an result, I searched exchanging project on our university's website for an oppotunity and it was really amazing that there were sufficient projects. Then in the summer vocation, I attended the summer session hold by University of California, Berkeley extention. It was dramatically enjoyable for me to enter the course about the local culture, make projects and presentations with my local classmates and communicate with professors. Therefore, the local culture left deep impression on me. In conclusion, appling for an exchange is a great choice.

In my opinion, I agree with Kelly's opinion that the government should not use taxes to support the public transportation, as it will create an additional burden on all people's back. However, someone who never use the transportation need to pay more taxes but they

In my opinion, the best strategy for a new business is to hire younger employees, just like what Paul said. One of the most critical factors is that the younger employees has a higher level of loyalty than those veterans, as the younger employees are lack of money and experience. Thus they have only one choice which is to spare no effort to work for the company. In other word, their individual development relies on the development of the company. By contrast, the veterans of the industry are less likely to be loyal to the company because they have more choices as they are more experienced. It is self-evident that they will not care any about the company if their individual benefit contradict to the development of company. Therefore, it will have negative impact on the company. In conclusion, hiring younger employees are the best choice for a new business.


The reading and the lecture both discuss the theories of decrease in humen brain mass. The author believes that there are three theories which can explain the phenomena. However, the lecturer disagrees with the argument

To begin with, according to the reading, climate change plays an important role in such decrease. However, the lecturer argues that the change of the temperature has nothing to do with human brain mass. As people in different place have the same volume of brain, so the factor can not decrease the human brain mass. This is the point directly contradicts what the passage indicates.

Moreover, the author claims that widespread transitions to agricultural civilizations is a critical factor of the shrinking of human brain. On the contrary, the lecturer rebuts that the point is really suspective. If it is true, then humen in every part of the global should have difference in the brain mass. However, humen who live in an agricultural culture have the same size of brain compared to those who live in the culture much earlier. This is another point where the listening opposes the reading passage.

Finally, the author contends that our brains shrink because of the decrease of our muscle mass. Nevertheless, the lecturer retorts that the point is not true as the decrease is not proportional between the muscle and brain as our muscle shrink only less than 2%. If it is true, it should show the equal decrease. This is the last point that the listening strongly disapproves of the passage.

The reading and the lecture both discuss the theories about how agnostids may have lived. The author believes those three theories can answer such question. However, the lecturer disagrees with the argument.

To begin with, according to the reading, the agnosids were likely to be free-swimming predictors. However, the lecturer argues that if they were predactors, they should have large eyes as vision is the most important way for predators. But arthropods had  no such organ and they were possibly blind. What's more, no evidence of fossil showed that they have other special sense. This is the point directly contradicts what the passage indicates.

Moreover, the author claims that the agnosids may have dwelled in the seafloor. On the contrary, the lecturer rebuts that the point is suspective as the fossil of those arthropods stay near which showed that they had no capability to move fast. Scientist find that they always move slowly or stay in localized place. Nevertheless, the fossil of the agnostids spread really wide on the seafloor. So it is obvious that they could move fast in the sea. This is another point where the listening opposes the reading passage.

Finally, the author contends that the agnostids may have been parasites. Nevertheless, the lecturer retorts that the point is also not true, as their population was really large so that they would kill their host by absorb nutrients for host. This is the last point that the listening strongly disapproves of the passage.





In my opinion, it is a great idea for company to encourage younger employees to mentor senior coworkers, just like what Claire said. One of the main reason is that younger employees are more likely to spare no effort to learn the new technology because they have lighter workload than the senior colleague and their brain may be more bright. For example, my friend Jack enter NVIDIA recently. Whenever I would like to chat with him, he always told me that he was reading paper or making several projects in the same time. As soon as the new technology such as NERF appears, he could finish his learning in several hours. By contrast, the senior may have less interest in the new technology as they are really tired after their work. Therefore, it is really efficient to let the younger employees mentor the senior colleagues.


In my opinion, nowadays one of the most serious global environmental problem is the warmhouse effect, which is caused by people's overexploitation of the environment. The warmhouse effect will have great negative impact, such as making the sea level rise. One of the effective solution to it is to cut down the polluted gas produced by factories. For example, government can carry out a policy about the limitation on the volume of carbon dioxigen which the factory can produce each year. Recently, a factory near my home was forced to close as its pollution effect the neighbor and this fact really scared other factories.



## Outline

* reason
* explanation)
* reason 5w1h
* 时间地点

or

s -> r1 -> exp -> r2 ->conclusion

写reason -> 列例子大纲（注意时态）（增加细节）

# 审题步骤

1. 教授问题
2. 学生观点
3. 审题
4. 判断题型

## 举例

sb is a compelling example

consider the following hypothetical situation

1. before
2. change
3. after

## 反驳

* 部分
* 不现实
* 优势覆盖

# Vocabulary

* [X] as opposed to = instead of
* [ ] spur v. 促进
* [ ] archaeological
* [ ] recap v. 回顾
* [ ] breaking news
* [ ] penetrate v. 渗透
* [ ] stay informed about current affairs
* [ ] staying up-to-date about
* [ ] upload them to Ins
* [ ] left comment on
* [ ]
* [ ]
* [ ]
